.TH RGB 1 "14 August 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
rgb - rgb compiler for X11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "rgb"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B rgb
reads a sorted file containing the
.I red-green-blue
values for a color and the color name.  The compiler verifies the values
of the rgb values and adds the values and the color name to a database file.
.P
The format of each entry in the file is as follows.
.P
\fIred_value <separator> green_value <separator> blue_value <separator> color_name\fR
.P
The values for the individual color components can range from 0 through 255.
The color name can be up to 41 characters long, excluding the null terminator;
anything after the 41st
character is truncated.	 The separator can be any white space character.
The file is set up so that the color values are separated by a space character
and the last color value and the color name are separated by 2 or 3 tab
characters (whichever is needed to align the last column in the file).
.SH "NAMING CONVENTIONS"
The naming convention is to use the names
.I rgb.<display_type>.txt
for the rgb source file and
.I rgb.<display_type>.base
for the compiled rgb file.
.SH OPTIONS
Since the server performs a binary search on
the color name, the database must be sorted according to the color name
before being compiled.
.I Sed
is used to change the multiple tabs into a single space before the file is
sorted.  The following command is used to
.I sed,
sort, and compile the database and direct the output to
.I rgb.<display_type>.base.
.P
.nf
.ft CW
/bin/sed "s/[ 	][ 	]*/ /g" < rgb.display_type.txt | sort -f +3 |
 ../bin/rgb rgb.display_type.base
.ft R
.fi
.P
The data within each square bracket pair is a single space character followed
by a single tab character.
.SH "DIRECTORY SPECIFICATION"
The directory containing the rgb database must be specified for the server.
Normally it is
.I "/usr/Xmtg/lib/rgb.<display_type>".
The server appends
.I .base
to the file name before reading it.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), Xserver(1)
